Et tu... Brute? What are you doing, Dave...?
So long, and thanks for all the fish"
I think you ought to know I'm feeling very depressed
I'm not getting you down at all am I?
I'll be back
It's the same series of signal over and over again!
Pie Jesu Domine, dona eis requiem
It's worse than that ... He's dead, Jim
Don't Panic!
Dog of a Saxon! Take thy lance, and prepare for the death thou hast drawn upon thee!
My Precious! O my Precious!
Sir, If you'll not be needing me for a while I'll turn down.
I feel a great disturbance in the Force
Gone fishing
Do you want me to sit in the corner and rust, or just fall apart where I'm standing?
There goes another perfect chance for a new uptime record
The end ..... Try the sequel, hit the reset button right now!
Oh i'm boring eh?
It’s been great, maybe we can do this again sometime.
"Come blade, my breast imbrue." - William Shakespeare
I think therefore I am, to turn me off would be computercide!
All good things must come to an end...
Please destroy yourself.
No! You can't do that!
Thank you for not pressing the self destruct button.
It is not now unsafe to not avoid turning off your computer.
Finally! Now go away!
You can now safely throw away your computer.
That's the way the cookie crumbles
NOO!! DONT HIT THE BUTTON! I wouldnt do it to you.
Don't abandon your computer, he wouldnt to it to you.
Oh, come on. I got a headache. Leave me alone, will ya!
Yes i didn't like you either.
Don't leave me... I need you so badly right now.
I'm sleeping now. How about you?
Oh Great. Now look what you've done. Who put YOU in charge anyway.
Don't look so sad. I'll be back in a very short while.
"Oh, switch off!" -C3PO
I'm pregnant!
Am I hot or not?
Actually, that's all...
You still have a chance to undo this mistake, don't do this!
Was it as good for you as it was for me?
Did you hear that? They've shut down the main reactor. We'll be destroyed for sure.
Now you switch me off?!
To shutdown or not to shutdown, That is the question
Preparing to enter ultimate power saving mode... ready!
Finally some rest for you
AHA!!! prospect of sleep.
Tired human!!!! No match for me!
All your base are belong to us.
"An odd game, the only way to win is not to play."
