README for the Fitz distribution.

Fitz is a graphics library.
MuPDF is a PDF parsing and manipulation library.
Samus is a Metro parser.
FzView is a PDF and Metro viewer application.
For Windows, there is also a Mozilla plugin version of the viewer.

The Viewer has three ports: X11, Windows and Carbon.
The Carbon port is rotting, so don't bother trying it.

This code is under the same licensing scheme as Ghostscript.
AFPL and one year or major release later GPL.
Because there have been no major releases yet; AFPL it is.

PREREQUISITES

Before compiling Fitz you need to install thirdy party dependencies.

	zlib
	libjpeg
	libpng
	freetype2
	expat

There are a few optional dependencies that you don't strictly need.
You will probably want the versions that Ghostscript maintains.

	jbig2dec
	jasper

Fitz uses the Perforce Jam build tool. You need the Perforce version 2.5
or later. Earlier versions (including the FTJam fork) have crippling bugs.
Boost Jam is not backwards compatible. If you do not have a compiled
binary for your system, you can find the Jam homepage here:

	http://www.perforce.com/jam/jam.html

The build also uses 'xxd', a hexdump tool that ships with Vim.
Here's a copy of the source if it's not on your system:

	http://ghostscript.com/~tor/download/xxd.c

I use Mingw and MSYS to compile for Windows. If you use anything
else, you are on your own.

COMPILING

If all of that is installed, compiling should be a cinch.
Issue the command 'jam' in the root of the Fitz directory.
Add a parameter '-sBUILD=release' or '-sBUILD=profile' to
build release or profile versions.

	$ jam '-sBUILD=release'

If the build fails because it cannot find header files or libraries,
look first in Jamrules to see if there is anything wrong with the
search paths or compiler flags for your system.

To compile in the optional jbig2 and jpeg2000 support, you need
to add the following arguments to jam:

	$ jam '-sHAVE_JBIG2DEC=yes' '-sHAVE_JASPER=yes'

To build the X11 version under MacOS X, add:

	$ jam '-sHAVE_X11=yes'

INSTALLING

There is no install. The command "jam install" will copy the
compiled binaries (for the specified build -- debug, release or profile)
into a "dist/" directory.

There is no support for building a shared library.

REPORTING BUGS AND PROBLEMS

Send reports to tor@ghostscript.com.

If you are reporting a problem with PDF parsing,
please include the problematic file as an attachment.

-- tor

