Last updated 30/09/98

-- Compiling

Type 'make' to build the kernel on linux using a djgpp cross compiler, or
'make -fmakefile.dos' to build the kernel from dos using djgpp. No other 
configuration are supported at the moment, sorry.

-- Running

To run the kernel start from a clean dos system (no emm386 or windows) and
run 'boot.bat'. The kernel should boot, print diagnostic messages and begin
executing a simple user-mode shell. By default the kernel boots with a
minimum set of drivers but additional ones can be specified as the arguments
to 'boot.bat'.

-- Problems

This is strictly alpha quality software so expect plenty of those. If you
are submitting a bug report, please see the section below. If you have a fix 
for the problem, even better, please send all patches, fixes, enhancements etc 
to me (David Welch), our coordinator Dennis Winkley or the kernel mailing
list. (See contact addresses below)

-- Bug Reports

Thank you for taking the time to do this, we can only fix the bugs we know
about, however please include as much information as possible. Say what you
were trying to do at the time, what messages (if any) were displayed. If the
kernel crashed, it should print a message like this

     Exception s(r)
     CS:EIP    p(q)
     DS xxxxx ES xxxx FS xxxx
     ...
     Frames: xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx

Please include the exception type and error code (s and r). The eip 
address (q) is specific to your kernel, to be of use in fixing the problem
it needs to be translated to a function name. Do this by running

      nm --numeric-sort kimage > kernel.sym

kernel.sym should include a list of functions and their address, look for the
last function with an address less than the eip value. The functions should
sorted in ascending order by address.

If you suspect the problem is hardware related also include details of what
hardware devices you have installed.  

-- Contact addresses

Overall coordinator, Jason Filby (jasonfilby@yahoo.com)
Kernel coordinator, Dennis Winkley (dwinkley@mail.whitworth.edu)
Me, David Welch (welch@mcmail.com)

Specific components will probably have contact details for the authors in
the source file, a partial list of those working on the kernel can be found
on the kernel website. 

-- Additional documentation

